No.14/1/2023-0/0 DS(e-Gov)-DARPG (8080)
Government of India
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions
Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances
(e-Governance Division)
*****
5th Floor, Sardar Patel Bhavan, Parliament Street,
New Delhi, Dated February 07, 2023
To
The Secretary General
Quality Council of India
Institute of engineers
2nd Floor, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg,
New Delhi-110001.
Subject:
Setting up of Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) for the works
relating to the Implementation of recommendations of
NesDA, 2021.
Sir,
I am directed to refer to the proposal received from Quality Council of
India (QCI) on the above subject vide email dated 11th January, 2023 and to
convey the approval of the Competent Authority for award of the said work to
QCI on the following terms and conditions:-
(A) Objective of PMU
The overall objective of setting up the PMU will be to work in association
with the DARPG to monitor and evaluate the implementation of
recommendations given in the NeSDA 2021 report for States/UTS/Central
Governments. The PMU will achieve this by being the nodal point for planning
and working on actionable agendas as prioritized by the Department.
The NeSDA 2021 report provides suggestions for further improvement in the
depth and effectiveness of e-Governance service delivery. These
recommendations are provided to enhance the usability and utility of the portals,
thereby encouraging greater acceptance of portals among citizens and ultimately
improving the country's e-Governance landscape. DARPG will collaborate with
States and Union Territories for timely implementation of the NeSDA 2021
recommendations to ensure:
Rolling out of all the identified mandatory and other e-services
Strengthening of State portals and service portals
Improvement of the country's e-Governance landscape is summarised into the
following key takeaways:
• Saturation of e-Services
•
•
Increase in delivery of mandatory and other identified e-Services across
the seven sectors. Moreover, provision of these online services facelessly.
Rise in use of Integrated / Centralized Portals for delivery of e-
Services
Adoption of integrated service delivery provides multiple benefits including
faster rollout of services, consistent interfaces, reduced friction, and
increased trust, leading to an overall better experience for citizens.
Suo-moto entitlement-based delivery of services
Timely provision of services to the citizens as per their requirement, based
on the lifecycle approach.
Improvement in scores of all seven assessment parameters of
NeSDA framework
Improved scores across all parameters reflect the work done towards
adoption of standards for uniformity in governance.
(B)
Scope of Work
vis-a-vis
2021
Professionals working in the PMU will primarily work with the Department
monitoring, review, and data analytics
NeSDA
recommendations. The scope of work will include but not limited to:
on
1. Assist and facilitate DARPG to achieve the aim of:
•
Saturation of all 56 mandatory services and optional services in all state
and UT Governments
Increased adoption of integrated centralized portals for e-service
delivery
Improvement in scores of all seven assessment parameters of NeSDA
framework. Especially, improved score of service portals at par with
state portal
2. Monitor NeSDA Portal and Coordination with various stakeholders:
Coordination with DARPG NIC team in monitoring of NeSDA Portal
.
Analysis and interpretation of the uploaded data on NeSDA Portal
Total e-services
Mandatory services
➤ Integrated portals
Auto Appeal
➤ Suo moto entitlement based services
Facilitate central ministries, state and UT governments to update their
details on the portal and act as their POCS
• Drafting agenda for review meetings
3. Generate regular reports and publications as per pre-defined
timelines highlighting:
(C)
Baseline for assessment and benchmarking of the provided services
Monitoring of central ministries, state and UT governments in terms of:
Number of e-services delivered
Number of mandatory services provided
Number of integrated portals
Score across all four parameters for State portals and across all
seven parameters for State Services portals added
Identification of bottlenecks in the implementation of recommendations
process
Dissemination of best practices
Composition and Manpower
The PMU team will comprise of 3 QCI professionals. The team will be
working with DARPG for a period of 1 year. The professionals will have the
relevant qualifications and professional background required to fulfil the tasks
outlined in the previous section.
•
These professionals will have the following skills and credentials:
The professionals might have been a part of any earlier PMU's set up at
various Ministries/ Departments by QCI
To help with specific analysis, at least 1 professional should have core
expertise in data analytics and must have graduated from Tier 1 college
from India/ abroad
(D) Financial Plan
The financials (Unit Cost) for setting up of the PMU by QCI are as follows:
Activity
QCI Professional
DARPG
-
NeSDA Project Monitoring Unit
Cost Man
Total Cost
Days
Professionals
Day
260
(5*52)
3
7,500
(in Rs)
58,50,000
12% of total cost
7,02,000
65,52,000
QCI (Administration
cost)
Total
*GST to be charged separately.
(E)
Payment Structure
The payment structure will be as follows *:
Target, Milestone, or Reporting Deliverables
Completion of 3 months
Amount (%)
Award of Work-Order and commencement of work
20%
20%
Completion of 6 months
Completion of 9 months
Completion of 12 months
Total Amount
20%
20%
20%
100%
*The payments will be released as per the provisions of guidelines of
Department of Expenditure issued from time to time.
The duration of one year of PMU will be started from the date of
issue of work order.
This issues with the approval of the Competent Authority and
concurrence of Integrated Finance Division. MHA's diary No. N-14/1/2023-0/0
DS(e-GoV)-DARPG (e.8080) dated 02/02/2023.
Yours faithfully
Stanja
(Sarita Taneja)
Dy. Secretary to the Government of India
Tel. 23401457
sarita.taneja@nic.in
Copy to:
1. DDO, Cash Section, DARPG
2. AFA (Pers.), MHA, North Block, New Delhi
3. Sanction Folder
Copy for information to
1. PPS to Secretary, DARPG
2. PSO to AS. DARPG
3. PS to JS, DARPG
